README.md, before:

# PhotoGallary Setup

The final version of the code is at https://github.com/sayedihashimi/PhotoGallerySample/tree/main.

## Prereqs
1. Install the [latest dotnet](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet/blob/main/docs/builds-table.md)
1. Install the [latest daily aspire ](https://github.com/dotnet/aspire/blob/main/docs/using-latest-daily.md)
1. If using VS add the following NuGet package source in Tools > Options name=`dotnet10` value=`https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/dnceng/public/_packaging/dotnet10/nuget/v3/index.json`.

## Getting started
You can either follow the steps below to start from scratch below. Or you can start with the code in the [start-here](https://github.com/sayedihashimi/PhotoGallerySample/tree/start-here) branch.
When using the `start-here` branch, start with step 4 below.
The `start-here` branch has comments for all the code that will be added. 
There is also a [PhotoList.razor.txt](assets/PhotoList.razor.txt) in the assets folder. This is a version of the
PhotoList.razor file that has code to get started and some commented out code that you can paste in later.

## Test Script Runner (Experimental)
An interactive console utility has been added at `src-tester/PhotoGallery.TestRunner` to help guide and (when possible) automate the 45 demo steps below.

It uses Spectre.Console to present each step with options:
1. Execute step (runs commands or performs file generation when possible)
2. Go back
3. Quit

Some steps remain manual (for example the fully interactive `aspire new` flow, or detailed source edits later in the list). For those, the runner shows the instructions and lets you mark the step complete.

### Running the test runner
Requires a .NET 10 (preview) SDK. If you don't have it yet, you can temporarily edit the tester csproj to target `net9.0`.

```pwsh
dotnet run --project .\src-tester\PhotoGallery.TestRunner\PhotoGallery.TestRunner.csproj
```

When prompted, supply (or create) an empty working folder. The runner will create / modify files inside that folder—NOT inside this repository—so you can quickly validate the scenario from scratch.

> Note: Commands that invoke PowerShell use `-NoProfile` per guidelines. Output from executed steps is captured and shown. Errors will stop a step but you can retry after fixing the environment.

## Demo Steps
To reproduce the PhotoGallery using the dotnet CLI, all steps are below. When running a command, run it from the new directory that you create in step 1.

To reproduce the PhotoGallery in VS, follow the steps through step 4. Then start with step 5 in VS.

1. Create, or open, an empty folder.
2. Create a `Directory.Build.props` with the content below.
    ```xml
    <Project>
      <PropertyGroup>
        <HotReloadAutoRestart>true</HotReloadAutoRestart>
      </PropertyGroup>
    </Project>
   ```
3. Run command below. This will enable `dotnet watch` to be on by default in non interactive mode. 
   ```bash
   aspire config set features.defaultWatchEnabled true -g
   ```
4. Create Aspire projects.
    ```bash
    aspire new
    ```
   - Template:  `AppHost and service defaults`
   - Name: `PhotoGallery`
   - Path: `.\`
   - Template version: `daily`
5. If you are using VS, open the solution file that was created by `aspire run`
6. Use the command below to create the Razor Pages web app. In VS select `ASP.NET Core Empty (9.0)` as the project template. When using in VS make sure to check "Enlist in Aspire Orchestration".
    ```bash
    dotnet new web -o PhotoGallery.Web -f net9.0
    ```
7. If using the CLI add the project to the solution with the command below. Skip this step if using VS.
   ```
   dotnet sln .\PhotoGallery.sln add .\PhotoGallery.Web\PhotoGallery.Web.csproj
   ```
8. Run `dotnet watch --verbose --non-interactive` or `F5`/`CTRL-F5` in Visual Studio.
9.  Dashboard should show "No Resources Found"
10. AppHost: `Add Project Reference` to `PhotoGallery.Web`
    ```bash
    dotnet add reference --project .\PhotoGallery.AppHost\PhotoGallery.AppHost.csproj .\PhotoGallery.Web\PhotoGallery.Web.csproj
    ```
11. `AppHost.cs` add after `var builder = …`
    ```cs
    builder.AddProject<Projects.PhotoGallery_Web>("webapp");
    ```
12. Dashboard should show "webapp" and it should get to running state.
13. AppHost: Add NuGet pkg reference to `Aspire.Hosting.Azure.Storage`
    ```bash
     dotnet add package --project .\PhotoGallery.AppHost\PhotoGallery.AppHost.csproj Aspire.Hosting.Azure.Storage --prerelease
    ```
    - Adjust the version number as needed
    - Note: version must match the version of `Aspire.Hosting.AppHost`
14. AppHost.cs – add code directly below `var builder = …`
    ```cs
    var photos = builder.AddAzureStorage("storage")
                        .RunAsEmulator()
                        .AddBlobs("blobs")
                        .AddBlobContainer("photos");
    ```
15. `PG.Web.Program.cs` – add after the first line (`var builder = …`)
    ```cs
    builder.Services.AddRazorComponents();
    ```
16. PG.Web: Add `Components` folder
17. PG.Web: Add new file `Components\PhotoList.razor` with the contents below.
    ```
    @code
    {
        [Parameter]
        public IEnumerable<string> Photos{get;set;} = [];
    }
    
    <ul>
        @foreach(var photo in Photos)
        {
            <li>@photo</li>
        }
    </ul>
    ```
18. `PG.Web.Program.cs` update app.MapGet to be the following
    ```
    app.MapGet("/", () => 
    {
        return new RazorComponentResult<PhotoList>(new {Photos = Array.Empty<string>() } );
    });
    ```
    Note: if you paste this code in VS it should add the following using statements.
    ```
    using PhotoGallery.Web.Components;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpResults;
    ```    
19. `PhotoList.razor` update with the following
    ```
    @code
    {
        [Parameter]
        public IEnumerable<string> Photos{get;set;} = [];
    }

    <html>
        <head>
            <title>Photo List</title>
        </head>
        <body>
        <script src="/_framework/aspnetcore-browser-refresh.js"></script>
        <ul>
                @foreach(var photo in Photos)
                {
                    <li>@photo</li>
                }
        </ul>
        </body>
    </html>
    ```
20. The title of the web page should be "Photo List"
21. View dashboard there shouldn’t be any errors
22. `PG.Web` Add NuGet Pkg ref to `Aspire.Azure.Storage.Blobs`
    ```bash
    dotnet add package --project .\PhotoGallery.Web\PhotoGallery.Web.csproj Aspire.Azure.Storage.Blobs --prerelease
    ```
    - Adjust the version number as needed
    - Version must match the version of `Aspire.Hosting.Azure.Storage` in AppHost project.
23. `AppHost.cs` – replace `builder.AddProject<Projects.PhotoGallery_Web>("webapp");` with
    ```cs
    builder.AddProject<Projects.PhotoGallery_Web>("webapp")
            .WithReference(photos)
            .WaitFor(photos);
    ```
24. `PG.Web.Program.cs` add after `var builder = …`
    ```cs
    builder.AddAzureBlobContainerClient("photos");
    ```
25. `PG.Web.Program.cs` update add using statement. _Skip if using VS. VS Shoud insert this on paste automatically._
    ```cs
    using Azure.Storage.Blobs;
    ```
26. `PG.Web.Program.cs` update `app.MapGet` to be the following.
    ```cs
    app.MapGet("/", async (BlobContainerClient client) =>
    {
        var blobs = client.GetBlobsAsync();
        var photos = new List<string>();
        await foreach(var photo in blobs)
        {
            photos.Add(photo.Name);
        }
        return new RazorComponentResult<PhotoList>(new {Photos = photos } );
    });
    ```
27. `PG.Web.PhotoList.razor` – replace with the code below
    ```
    @code
    {
        [Parameter]
        public IEnumerable<string> Photos { get; set; } = [];
    }

    <html>
    <head>
        <title>Photo List</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <script src="/_framework/aspnetcore-browser-refresh.js"></script>
        <h2>Photo List</h2>
        <div>
            <form action="/upload" method="post" enctype="multipart/form-data">
                <div>
                    <label for="photo">Choose photo:</label>
                    <input type="file" id="photo" name="photo" accept="image/*" required > 
                </div>
                <div>
                    <button type="submit">Upload Photo</button>
                </div>
            </form>
        </div>

        <ul>
            @foreach (var photo in Photos)
            {
                <li>@photo</li>
            }
        </ul>
    </body>
    </html>
    ```
28. `PG.Web`: add Project Reference to ServiceDefaults project. In VS if you checked "Enlist in Aspire" in the New Project Dialog for the web project, you can skip this step.
    ```bash
    dotnet add reference --project .\PhotoGallery.Web\PhotoGallery.Web.csproj .\PhotoGallery.ServiceDefaults\PhotoGallery.ServiceDefaults.csproj
    ```
29. `PG.Web.Program.cs` add after `var builder = …`. In VS if you checked "Enlist in Aspire" in the New Project Dialog for the web project, you can skip this step.
    ```cs
    builder.AddServiceDefaults();
    ```
30. `PG.Web.Program.cs` add after `var app = builder.Build()`. In VS if you checked "Enlist in Aspire" in the New Project Dialog for the web project, you can skip this step.
    ```cs
    app.MapDefaultEndpoints();
    ```
31. `PG.Web.Program.cs` add after `app.MapGet …`
    ```cs
    app.MapPost("/upload", async (IFormFile photo, BlobContainerClient client) =>
    {
        if (photo.Length > 0)
        {
            var blobClient = client.GetBlobClient(photo.FileName);
            await blobClient.UploadAsync(photo.OpenReadStream(), true);
        }
    
        return Results.Redirect("/");
    });
    ```
32. Verify in the dashboard that Traces has webapp showing up in the Resource dropdown.
33. If you try webapp, you’ll get antiforgery errors. The exception should be in Structured logs in the dashboard.
34. `PG.Web.Program.cs` – add before `var app = builder.Build();`
    ```cs
    builder.Services.AddAntiforgery();
    ```
35. `PG.Web.Program.cs` – add after `var app = builder.Build()`
    ```cs
    app.UseAntiforgery();
    ```
36. `PG.Web.PhotoList.razor` – add using at the top of the file. _Skip if using VS. VS Shoud insert this on paste automatically._
    ```
    @using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Forms
    ```
37. `PG.Web.PhotoList.razor` – add immediately after opening `<form>` tag.
    ```html
    <AntiforgeryToken />
    ```
38. The app should be working, after uploading an image, the file name should be listed on the web page.
39. `PG.Web` - add a `wwwroot` folder
40. `PG.Web` - add a new file at `wwwroot/theme.css`, with the content below
    ```css
    body {
        background-color: gray;
    }
    ```
41. `PG.Web.Program.cs` - add after `var app = builder.Build()`
    ```cs
    app.UseStaticFiles();
    ```
42. `PG.Web.PhotoList.razor` - add in `<head>`
    ```html
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/theme.css"/>
    ```
43. `PG.Web.PhotoList.razor` - replace with the code below
    ```
    @using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Forms
    @code {
        [Parameter]
        public IEnumerable<string> Photos { get; set; } = [];

        private static string BuildPhotoUrl(string name) => $"/photos/{Uri.EscapeDataString(name)}";
    }

    <html>
    <head>
        <title>Photo List</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="/theme.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <section class="photo-list-root">
            <div class="content-container">
                <header class="upload-header">
                    <h1 class="page-title">Photo Gallery</h1>
                    <div class="upload-panel" aria-labelledby="upload-title">
                        <h2 id="upload-title" class="upload-title">Upload a Photo</h2>
                        <form class="upload-form" action="/upload" method="post" enctype="multipart/form-data" id="uploadForm">
                            <AntiforgeryToken />
                            <div class="field-group">
                                <label class="file-input-label" for="photo">Choose photo</label>
                                <input class="file-input" type="file" id="photo" name="photo" accept="image/*" required />
                            </div>
                            <button class="upload-button" type="submit" disabled id="uploadButton">Upload</button>
                        </form>
                    </div>
                </header>

                <div class="section-separator" role="separator" aria-hidden="true"></div>

                <section class="gallery-section" aria-labelledby="gallery-heading">
                    <div class="section-heading-row">
                        <h2 id="gallery-heading" class="section-heading">Your Photos</h2>
                        <span class="photo-count" aria-live="polite">@((Photos?.Count() ?? 0)) total</span>
                    </div>

                    @if (Photos is null || !Photos.Any())
                    {
                        <div class="empty-state">
                            <p>No photos uploaded yet. Use the panel above to add one.</p>
                        </div>
                    }
                    else
                    {
                        <ul class="gallery" aria-label="Photo gallery">
                            @foreach (var photo in Photos)
                            {
                                <li class="photo-card">
                                    <div class="image-wrapper">
                                        <img src="@BuildPhotoUrl(photo)" alt="@photo" loading="lazy" decoding="async" />
                                        <form method="post" action="/photos/@Uri.EscapeDataString(photo)/delete" class="delete-form" onsubmit="return confirm('Delete this photo?');">
                                            <AntiforgeryToken />
                                            <button type="submit" class="delete-button" aria-label="Delete @photo" title="Delete @photo">✕</button>
                                        </form>
                                    </div>
                                    <div class="caption" title="@photo">@photo</div>
                                </li>
                            }
                        </ul>
                    }
                </section>
            </div>
        </section>

        <script>
            (function() {
                const fileInput = document.getElementById('photo');
                const uploadBtn = document.getElementById('uploadButton');
                if (fileInput && uploadBtn) {
                    fileInput.addEventListener('change', () => {
                        uploadBtn.disabled = !fileInput.files || fileInput.files.length === 0;
                    });
                }
            })();
        </script>
    </body>
    </html>
    ```
44. `PG.Web.wwwroot.theme.css` - replace with the content below
    ```css
    /* Global dark theme tokens */
    :root {
    --gallery-gap: clamp(.75rem, 1.6vw, 1.25rem);
    --card-radius: 14px;
    --color-bg: hsl(222 28% 9%);
    --color-bg-accent: linear-gradient(145deg, hsl(222 30% 14%), hsl(222 32% 10%));
    --card-bg: hsl(222 25% 15%);
    --card-bg-alt: hsl(222 24% 18%);
    --card-border: hsl(220 18% 65% / 0.16);
    --card-border-strong: hsl(220 40% 70% / 0.35);
    --shadow-sm: 0 2px 4px -2px hsl(0 0% 0% / .55);
    --shadow-lg: 0 10px 32px -10px hsl(222 70% 20% / .45);
    --focus-ring: 0 0 0 3px hsl(210 90% 60% / .55), 0 0 0 6px hsl(210 90% 60% / .2);
    --upload-accent: hsl(215 90% 55%);
    --upload-accent-hover: hsl(215 92% 50%);
    --upload-accent-active: hsl(215 95% 46%);
    --text-strong: hsl(220 33% 94%);
    --text-dim: hsl(220 18% 70%);
    --danger: hsl(0 78% 55%);
    --danger-hover: hsl(0 80% 60%);
    --danger-active: hsl(0 85% 52%);
    --danger-ring: 0 0 0 3px hsl(0 85% 55% / .4), 0 0 0 6px hsl(0 85% 55% / .18);
    --empty-fg: hsl(220 14% 60%);
    }

    body {
    background: var(--color-bg);
    background-image: radial-gradient(circle at 25% 20%, hsl(222 40% 18% / .55), transparent 55%),
        radial-gradient(circle at 80% 70%, hsl(222 55% 22% / .35), transparent 60%);
    color: var(--text-strong);
    font-family: system-ui, -apple-system, "Segoe UI", Roboto, Ubuntu, sans-serif;
    min-height: 100dvh;
    margin: 0;
    }

    /* Global layout spacing for gallery component */
    .photo-list-root { padding: clamp(2rem,4vw,3rem) clamp(2rem,5vw,4rem) 4rem; }
    .photo-list-root .content-container { width: 100%; max-width: 1200px; margin-inline: auto; }

    /* Ensure gallery UL default bullets never appear (defensive) */
    ul.gallery { list-style: none !important; margin: 0; padding: 0; }
    ul.gallery > li { list-style: none !important; }
    ```
45. The app should be working now.

Commit message:

changing src-tester to src. Updating readme

README.md, after:

# PhotoGallary Setup

Below are steps to recreate the PhotoGallery Aspire app. You can also use the command line tool in the `src` directory
to assist you in recreating the PhotoGallery app.

## Prereqs
1. Install the [latest dotnet](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet/blob/main/docs/builds-table.md)
1. Install the [latest daily aspire ](https://github.com/dotnet/aspire/blob/main/docs/using-latest-daily.md)

## Test Script Runner (Experimental)
An interactive console utility has been added at `src/PhotoGalleryScriptRunner` to help guide and (when possible) automate the demo steps below.

It uses Spectre.Console to present each step with options:
1. Execute step (runs commands or performs file generation when possible)
2. Go back
3. Quit

Some steps remain manual (for example the fully interactive `aspire new` flow, or detailed source edits later in the list). For those, the runner shows the instructions and lets you mark the step complete.

### Running the test runner
Requires a .NET 10 (preview) SDK. If you don't have it yet, you can temporarily edit the tester csproj to target `net9.0`.

```pwsh
dotnet run --project .\src\PhotoGalleryScriptRunner\PhotoGalleryScriptRunner.csproj
```

When prompted, supply (or create) an empty working folder. The runner will create / modify files inside that folder—NOT inside this repository—so you can quickly validate the scenario from scratch.

## Manual Steps to recreate the PhotoGallery app
To reproduce the PhotoGallery using the dotnet CLI, all steps are below. When running a command, run it from the new directory that you create in step 1.

1. Create, or open, an empty folder.
2. Create a `Directory.Build.props` with the content below.
    ```xml
    <Project>
      <PropertyGroup>
        <HotReloadAutoRestart>true</HotReloadAutoRestart>
      </PropertyGroup>
    </Project>
   ```
3. Run command below. This will enable `dotnet watch` to be on by default in non interactive mode. 
   ```bash
   aspire config set features.defaultWatchEnabled true -g
   ```
4. Create Aspire projects.
    ```bash
    aspire new
    ```
   - Template:  `AppHost and service defaults`
   - Name: `PhotoGallery`
   - Path: `.\`
   - Template version: `daily`
5. If you are using VS, open the solution file that was created by `aspire run`
6. Use the command below to create the Razor Pages web app. In VS select `ASP.NET Core Empty (9.0)` as the project template. When using in VS make sure to check "Enlist in Aspire Orchestration".
    ```bash
    dotnet new web -o PhotoGallery.Web -f net9.0
    ```
7. If using the CLI add the project to the solution with the command below. Skip this step if using VS.
   ```
   dotnet sln .\PhotoGallery.sln add .\PhotoGallery.Web\PhotoGallery.Web.csproj
   ```
8. Run `dotnet watch --verbose --non-interactive` or `F5`/`CTRL-F5` in Visual Studio.
9.  Dashboard should show "No Resources Found"
10. AppHost: `Add Project Reference` to `PhotoGallery.Web`
    ```bash
    dotnet add reference --project .\PhotoGallery.AppHost\PhotoGallery.AppHost.csproj .\PhotoGallery.Web\PhotoGallery.Web.csproj
    ```
11. `AppHost.cs` add after `var builder = …`
    ```cs
    builder.AddProject<Projects.PhotoGallery_Web>("webapp");
    ```
12. Dashboard should show "webapp" and it should get to running state.
13. AppHost: Add NuGet pkg reference to `Aspire.Hosting.Azure.Storage`
    ```bash
     dotnet add package --project .\PhotoGallery.AppHost\PhotoGallery.AppHost.csproj Aspire.Hosting.Azure.Storage --prerelease
    ```
    - Adjust the version number as needed
    - Note: version must match the version of `Aspire.Hosting.AppHost`
14. AppHost.cs – add code directly below `var builder = …`
    ```cs
    var photos = builder.AddAzureStorage("storage")
                        .RunAsEmulator()
                        .AddBlobs("blobs")
                        .AddBlobContainer("photos");
    ```
15. `PG.Web.Program.cs` – add after the first line (`var builder = …`)
    ```cs
    builder.Services.AddRazorComponents();
    ```
16. PG.Web: Add `Components` folder
17. PG.Web: Add new file `Components\PhotoList.razor` with the contents below.
    ```
    @code
    {
        [Parameter]
        public IEnumerable<string> Photos{get;set;} = [];
    }
    
    <ul>
        @foreach(var photo in Photos)
        {
            <li>@photo</li>
        }
    </ul>
    ```
18. `PG.Web.Program.cs` update app.MapGet to be the following
    ```
    app.MapGet("/", () => 
    {
        return new RazorComponentResult<PhotoList>(new {Photos = Array.Empty<string>() } );
    });
    ```
    Note: if you paste this code in VS it should add the following using statements.
    ```
    using PhotoGallery.Web.Components;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpResults;
    ```    
19. `PhotoList.razor` update with the following
    ```
    @code
    {
        [Parameter]
        public IEnumerable<string> Photos{get;set;} = [];
    }

    <html>
        <head>
            <title>Photo List</title>
        </head>
        <body>
        <script src="/_framework/aspnetcore-browser-refresh.js"></script>
        <ul>
                @foreach(var photo in Photos)
                {
                    <li>@photo</li>
                }
        </ul>
        </body>
    </html>
    ```
20. The title of the web page should be "Photo List"
21. View dashboard there shouldn’t be any errors
22. `PG.Web` Add NuGet Pkg ref to `Aspire.Azure.Storage.Blobs`
    ```bash
    dotnet add package --project .\PhotoGallery.Web\PhotoGallery.Web.csproj Aspire.Azure.Storage.Blobs --prerelease
    ```
    - Adjust the version number as needed
    - Version must match the version of `Aspire.Hosting.Azure.Storage` in AppHost project.
23. `AppHost.cs` – replace `builder.AddProject<Projects.PhotoGallery_Web>("webapp");` with
    ```cs
    builder.AddProject<Projects.PhotoGallery_Web>("webapp")
            .WithReference(photos)
            .WaitFor(photos);
    ```
24. `PG.Web.Program.cs` add after `var builder = …`
    ```cs
    builder.AddAzureBlobContainerClient("photos");
    ```
25. `PG.Web.Program.cs` update add using statement. _Skip if using VS. VS Shoud insert this on paste automatically._
    ```cs
    using Azure.Storage.Blobs;
    ```
26. `PG.Web.Program.cs` update `app.MapGet` to be the following.
    ```cs
    app.MapGet("/", async (BlobContainerClient client) =>
    {
        var blobs = client.GetBlobsAsync();
        var photos = new List<string>();
        await foreach(var photo in blobs)
        {
            photos.Add(photo.Name);
        }
        return new RazorComponentResult<PhotoList>(new {Photos = photos } );
    });
    ```
27. `PG.Web.PhotoList.razor` – replace with the code below
    ```
    @code
    {
        [Parameter]
        public IEnumerable<string> Photos { get; set; } = [];
    }

    <html>
    <head>
        <title>Photo List</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <script src="/_framework/aspnetcore-browser-refresh.js"></script>
        <h2>Photo List</h2>
        <div>
            <form action="/upload" method="post" enctype="multipart/form-data">
                <div>
                    <label for="photo">Choose photo:</label>
                    <input type="file" id="photo" name="photo" accept="image/*" required > 
                </div>
                <div>
                    <button type="submit">Upload Photo</button>
                </div>
            </form>
        </div>

        <ul>
            @foreach (var photo in Photos)
            {
                <li>@photo</li>
            }
        </ul>
    </body>
    </html>
    ```
28. `PG.Web`: add Project Reference to ServiceDefaults project. In VS if you checked "Enlist in Aspire" in the New Project Dialog for the web project, you can skip this step.
    ```bash
    dotnet add reference --project .\PhotoGallery.Web\PhotoGallery.Web.csproj .\PhotoGallery.ServiceDefaults\PhotoGallery.ServiceDefaults.csproj
    ```
29. `PG.Web.Program.cs` add after `var builder = …`. In VS if you checked "Enlist in Aspire" in the New Project Dialog for the web project, you can skip this step.
    ```cs
    builder.AddServiceDefaults();
    ```
30. `PG.Web.Program.cs` add after `var app = builder.Build()`. In VS if you checked "Enlist in Aspire" in the New Project Dialog for the web project, you can skip this step.
    ```cs
    app.MapDefaultEndpoints();
    ```
31. `PG.Web.Program.cs` add after `app.MapGet …`
    ```cs
    app.MapPost("/upload", async (IFormFile photo, BlobContainerClient client) =>
    {
        if (photo.Length > 0)
        {
            var blobClient = client.GetBlobClient(photo.FileName);
            await blobClient.UploadAsync(photo.OpenReadStream(), true);
        }
    
        return Results.Redirect("/");
    });
    ```
32. Verify in the dashboard that Traces has webapp showing up in the Resource dropdown.
33. If you try webapp, you’ll get antiforgery errors. The exception should be in Structured logs in the dashboard.
34. `PG.Web.Program.cs` – add before `var app = builder.Build();`
    ```cs
    builder.Services.AddAntiforgery();
    ```
35. `PG.Web.Program.cs` – add after `var app = builder.Build()`
    ```cs
    app.UseAntiforgery();
    ```
36. `PG.Web.PhotoList.razor` – add using at the top of the file. _Skip if using VS. VS Shoud insert this on paste automatically._
    ```
    @using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Forms
    ```
37. `PG.Web.PhotoList.razor` – add immediately after opening `<form>` tag.
    ```html
    <AntiforgeryToken />
    ```
38. The app should be working, after uploading an image, the file name should be listed on the web page.
39. `PG.Web` - add a `wwwroot` folder
40. `PG.Web` - add a new file at `wwwroot/theme.css`, with the content below
    ```css
    body {
        background-color: gray;
    }
    ```
41. `PG.Web.Program.cs` - add after `var app = builder.Build()`
    ```cs
    app.UseStaticFiles();
    ```
42. `PG.Web.PhotoList.razor` - add in `<head>`
    ```html
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/theme.css"/>
    ```
43. `PG.Web.PhotoList.razor` - replace with the code below
    ```
    @using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Forms
    @code {
        [Parameter]
        public IEnumerable<string> Photos { get; set; } = [];

        private static string BuildPhotoUrl(string name) => $"/photos/{Uri.EscapeDataString(name)}";
    }

    <html>
    <head>
        <title>Photo List</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="/theme.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <section class="photo-list-root">
            <div class="content-container">
                <header class="upload-header">
                    <h1 class="page-title">Photo Gallery</h1>
                    <div class="upload-panel" aria-labelledby="upload-title">
                        <h2 id="upload-title" class="upload-title">Upload a Photo</h2>
                        <form class="upload-form" action="/upload" method="post" enctype="multipart/form-data" id="uploadForm">
                            <AntiforgeryToken />
                            <div class="field-group">
                                <label class="file-input-label" for="photo">Choose photo</label>
                                <input class="file-input" type="file" id="photo" name="photo" accept="image/*" required />
                            </div>
                            <button class="upload-button" type="submit" disabled id="uploadButton">Upload</button>
                        </form>
                    </div>
                </header>

                <div class="section-separator" role="separator" aria-hidden="true"></div>

                <section class="gallery-section" aria-labelledby="gallery-heading">
                    <div class="section-heading-row">
                        <h2 id="gallery-heading" class="section-heading">Your Photos</h2>
                        <span class="photo-count" aria-live="polite">@((Photos?.Count() ?? 0)) total</span>
                    </div>

                    @if (Photos is null || !Photos.Any())
                    {
                        <div class="empty-state">
                            <p>No photos uploaded yet. Use the panel above to add one.</p>
                        </div>
                    }
                    else
                    {
                        <ul class="gallery" aria-label="Photo gallery">
                            @foreach (var photo in Photos)
                            {
                                <li class="photo-card">
                                    <div class="image-wrapper">
                                        <img src="@BuildPhotoUrl(photo)" alt="@photo" loading="lazy" decoding="async" />
                                        <form method="post" action="/photos/@Uri.EscapeDataString(photo)/delete" class="delete-form" onsubmit="return confirm('Delete this photo?');">
                                            <AntiforgeryToken />
                                            <button type="submit" class="delete-button" aria-label="Delete @photo" title="Delete @photo">✕</button>
                                        </form>
                                    </div>
                                    <div class="caption" title="@photo">@photo</div>
                                </li>
                            }
                        </ul>
                    }
                </section>
            </div>
        </section>

        <script>
            (function() {
                const fileInput = document.getElementById('photo');
                const uploadBtn = document.getElementById('uploadButton');
                if (fileInput && uploadBtn) {
                    fileInput.addEventListener('change', () => {
                        uploadBtn.disabled = !fileInput.files || fileInput.files.length === 0;
                    });
                }
            })();
        </script>
    </body>
    </html>
    ```
44. `PG.Web.wwwroot.theme.css` - replace with the content below
    ```css
    /* Global dark theme tokens */
    :root {
    --gallery-gap: clamp(.75rem, 1.6vw, 1.25rem);
    --card-radius: 14px;
    --color-bg: hsl(222 28% 9%);
    --color-bg-accent: linear-gradient(145deg, hsl(222 30% 14%), hsl(222 32% 10%));
    --card-bg: hsl(222 25% 15%);
    --card-bg-alt: hsl(222 24% 18%);
    --card-border: hsl(220 18% 65% / 0.16);
    --card-border-strong: hsl(220 40% 70% / 0.35);
    --shadow-sm: 0 2px 4px -2px hsl(0 0% 0% / .55);
    --shadow-lg: 0 10px 32px -10px hsl(222 70% 20% / .45);
    --focus-ring: 0 0 0 3px hsl(210 90% 60% / .55), 0 0 0 6px hsl(210 90% 60% / .2);
    --upload-accent: hsl(215 90% 55%);
    --upload-accent-hover: hsl(215 92% 50%);
    --upload-accent-active: hsl(215 95% 46%);
    --text-strong: hsl(220 33% 94%);
    --text-dim: hsl(220 18% 70%);
    --danger: hsl(0 78% 55%);
    --danger-hover: hsl(0 80% 60%);
    --danger-active: hsl(0 85% 52%);
    --danger-ring: 0 0 0 3px hsl(0 85% 55% / .4), 0 0 0 6px hsl(0 85% 55% / .18);
    --empty-fg: hsl(220 14% 60%);
    }

    body {
    background: var(--color-bg);
    background-image: radial-gradient(circle at 25% 20%, hsl(222 40% 18% / .55), transparent 55%),
        radial-gradient(circle at 80% 70%, hsl(222 55% 22% / .35), transparent 60%);
    color: var(--text-strong);
    font-family: system-ui, -apple-system, "Segoe UI", Roboto, Ubuntu, sans-serif;
    min-height: 100dvh;
    margin: 0;
    }

    /* Global layout spacing for gallery component */
    .photo-list-root { padding: clamp(2rem,4vw,3rem) clamp(2rem,5vw,4rem) 4rem; }
    .photo-list-root .content-container { width: 100%; max-width: 1200px; margin-inline: auto; }

    /* Ensure gallery UL default bullets never appear (defensive) */
    ul.gallery { list-style: none !important; margin: 0; padding: 0; }
    ul.gallery > li { list-style: none !important; }
    ```
45. The app should be working now.
